		SAS 2017 CHALLENGE : INDOOR LOCALIZATION USING INERTIAL SENSORS COMMONLY AVAILABLE IN ANDROID DEVICES
				

Authors:
	NINAD INGALE (nis3177)
	KARTEEK PRADYUMNA BULUSU (kb1304)


Challange Description
-----------
The projct aims to implement a reliable algorithm to predict the cordinates at the next instance of user holding the android 
device.

This algorithm has been implemented to cater an indoor localization challange arranged by IEEE Sensor Applications Symposium 
(http://2016.sensorapps.org/localization-challenge). 

More details about the challange and the dataset are available at https://github.com/IndoorLocalization/datasets. 


Code Description: 
-----------
We have divided the implementation into two separate programming units as preprocessing and prediction steps. In the preprocessing 
step we have done operations on the data and we have created some new features like magnitude of acceleration, rotation angles for 
X-axis, Y-axis around Z-axis, also we have created the step length at each instance.This code has been included in the 
preprocessingFile.java code unit. 

In the next module which is responsible for predicting the next steps taken by the user, the programming module is again divided into 
the methods for reading the preprocessed data, calculating the angles of rotation and then implementing the prediction formula specified 
in step 3 of the algorithm for kalman filter. In this module we have used the JAMA libraries for the sake of ease for multiplication 
with the rotational matrices.  


User guide
----------
Step 1 : Creating the Preprocessed file.  

	In order to create the preprocessed file which will be then fed to the kalman filter code unit , execute the preprocessingFile.java
	code unit. I  order to succesfully execute this , we need to be sure of following 

	1.The input file is present at the directory mentioned in the program.
	2.We need to have read/write permissions to the location where we want to write the preprocessing step output file. 
	3.We need to make sure we have enough space to write the output file.    	
	
	Output of this step is the preprocessed file being present at the location mentioned in the program.  

Step 2 : Predicting the Next step of the user. 
	
	This code segment has to be executed after the preprocessingFile.java module.The preprocessed file created in Step 1 needs to be consumed 
	by this step in order to predict the location of the user at the next instance. In order to execute this code segment succesfully , we need 
	to make sure of following 
	
	1.The preprocessed file is present at the directory mentioned in the program.	 	
	2.We need to have external jars imported for Jfreechart for plotting of the values and JAMA libraries for matrix operations.
	3.We need to have read/write permissions to the location where we want to write the preprocessing step output file.   

	Output of this step is the graphs being created for the actual values from sensors and the predicted values given by the kalman filter. Also we 
	have the output (predicted values ax,ay,tau) which is the position of the person in the next instance in a 2 dimensional real world coordinates 
	(ax,ay) and the heading direction (tau) with respect to the earth's magnetic field and the rotation provided by the gyroscope readings written at 
	the console.  